>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SATURDAY, OCTOBER 22: THE
CANDIDATES PROMOTE THEIR AGENDAS
SHOULD THEY WIN THE PRESIDENCY;
IRAQI FORCES ADVANCE ON MOSUL IN
THEIR CAMPAIGN TO RETAKE THE
COUNTRY'S SECOND LARGEST CITY
FROM ISIS.
AND IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT, A
GLIMPSE OF HOW ROBOTS MAY
TRANSFORM AMERICA'S FUTURE
WORKFORCE.
NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS AT
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING,
AND THANKS FOR JOINING US.
MORE THAN FIVE MILLION PEOPLE
HAVE ALREADY CAST BALLOTS IN THE
PRESIDENTIAL RACE IN EARLY
VOTING THAT'S UNDER WAY IN 34
STATES.
WITH TWO WEEKS AND NO DEBATES
LEFT UNTIL ELECTION DAY, DONALD
TRUMP AND HILLARY CLINTON ARE
MAKING THEIR CLOSING ARGUMENTS
TO THE REST OF AMERICA'S 200
MILLION REGISTERED VOTERS.
TODAY, IN GETTYSBURG,
PENNSYLVANIA, TRUMP LAID OUT AN
AGENDA FOR HIS FIRST 100 DAYS IN
OFFICE SHOULD HE WIN THE RACE.
ONE FOCUS: GOVERNMENT REFORM,
INCLUDING A HIRING FREEZE FOR
MOST FEDERAL GOVERNMENT JOBS;
BANNING GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
FROM BECOMING LOBBYISTS FOR FIVE
YEARS AFTER THEY LEAVE
GOVERNMENT; REQUIRING THE REPEAL
OF TWO GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS
FOR EVERY NEW ONE IMPOSED; AND
PUSHING A CONSTITUTIONAL
AMENDMENT FOR TERM LIMITS FOR
CONGRESS.
>> HILLARY CLINTON IS NOT
RUNNING AGAINST ME, SHE'S
RUNNING AGAINST CHANGE.
>> Sreenivasan: TRUMP ALSO SAID
TODAY THAT AFTER THE ELECTION HE
INTENDS TO SUE THE TEN WOMEN WHO
HAVE PUBLICLY ACCUSED HIM OF
UNWANTED SEXUAL ADVANCES.
HILLARY CLINTON ALSO CAMPAIGNED
IN PENNSYLVANIA LATER IN THE DAY
WITH RUNNING MATE TIM KAINE, IN
PITTSBURGH AND PHILADELPHIA.
MEANWHILE, HER HUSBAND CARRIED
HER MESSAGE TO VOTERS IN
FLORIDA.
>> THIS ELECTION HAS COME DOWN
TO SOMETHING THAT'S WAY BIGGER
THAN PARTISANSHIP.
DOES THE ECONOMY WORK BETTER
WHEN WE WORK TOGETHER, WHEN WE
INVEST IN EVERYBODY, WHEN WE
GROW THE ECONOMY FROM THE MIDDLE
OUT AND THE BOTTOM UP?
OR DO WE WANT TO GO BACK TO
TRICKLE-DOWN?
I THINK THE ANSWER'S CLEAR.
>> Sreenivasan: FOR MORE
ANALYSIS OF THE PRESIDENTIAL
RACE, I'M JOINED NOW BY NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
JEFF GREENFIELD, WHO JOINS US
FROM SANTA BARBARA, CALIFORNIA.
SO, JEFF, GIVEN THE TOPSY-TURVY
NATURE OF THIS CAMPAIGN CYCLE
AND REALLY THAT THE NEWS SEEMS
TO BE WHAT HAPPENS OFF THE
TRAIL, NOT NECESSARILY WHAT
THEY'RE DOING AS THEY CAMPAIGN,
ARE THERE STILL FACTORS THAT
COULD IMPACT THE ELECTION IN THE
NEXT COUPLE OF WEEKS?
>> THERE ARE TIMES WHEN WE'VE
SEEN LATE-BREAKING EVENTS CHANGE
THE OUTCOME.
I THINK THE ONE REAGAN-CARTER
DEBATE IN 1980, WHICH HAPPENED
JUST A WEEK BEFORE THE ELECTION,
HELPED TURN THAT INTO A
LANDSLIDE.
THE CAMPAIGN OF GEORGE W. BUSH
HAS ALWAYS ARGUED THAT THEY LOST
THE POPULAR VOTE BECAUSE OF A
LATE-BREAKING STORY ABOUT BUSH'S
YOUTHFUL DRUNK DRIVING ARRESTS
THAT COST HIM, THEY THINK, A FEW
MILLION EVANGELICALS.
BUT BY AND LARGE, THIS IS THE
PERIOD-- DEBATES ARE OVER-- WHEN
THE RACE STABILIZES, WHICH IS
WHY A FIVE-POINT LEAD WITH ONE
WEEK TO GO MEANS MUCH MORE THAN
A FIVE-POINT LEAD WITH A MONTH
TO GO.
SO, THE HOPE OF THE TRUMP
CAMPAIGN IS THAT THERE ARE THESE
PEOPLE WHO HAVE NOT TOLD THE
POLLSTERS THEY ARE GOING TO VOTE
FOR TRUMP.
THEY POINT TO THE BREXIT
RESULTS.
THE PROBLEM WITH THAT IS THAT
THE BREXIT POLLS WERE ACTUALLY
VERY, VERY CLOSE.
SO, WHILE IT'S POSSIBLE, IT'S
ALSO POSSIBLE THAT, YOU KNOW,
WOMEN WHO WERE ON THE FENCE MAY
HAVE BEEN PUSHED TO VOTE FOR
CLINTON BY TRUMP'S VARIOUS
COMMENTS.
BUT BY AND LARGE, YOU WOULDN'T
WANT TO BET THE FARM OR EVEN THE
CHICKEN COOP ON A SUDDEN LATE
SHIFT THIS LATE IN THE CAMPAIGN.
>> Sreenivasan: IS THERE A
POSSIBILITY FOR OVER-CONFIDENCE
ON THE CLINTON SIDE?
I MEAN, THEY SAY THAT "WE'RE NOT
TAKING ANYTHING FOR GRANTED,"
BUT GIVEN WHERE THE MAJORITY OF
THE POLLS ARE LEANING, WHERE THE
PROBABILITY PREDICTION MARKETS
AND SO FORTH, AND GIVEN THAT
REALLY THE ONLY POLL THAT
MATTERS IS THE ONE THAT HAPPENS
ON NOVEMBER 8?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, I'VE NEVER
UNDERSTOOD WHO IS SUPPOSED TO
STAY HOME IF THE POLLS SHOW A
CLEAR LEAD FOR ONE CANDIDATE.
IS IT THAT CANDIDATE'S
SUPPORTERS WHO THINK, "WELL, WHY
BOTHER, WE'VE WON?"
OR IS IT THE TRAILING
CANDIDATE'S SUPPORTERS WHO
THINK, "WELL, WE'RE... IT'S
LOST, WHY BOTHER?"
I THINK YOU ALSO HAVE TO ACCOUNT
FOR THE FACT THAT THE GROUND
GAME THAT WE SAW IN THE OBAMA
CAMPAIGNS THAT IS VERY MUCH
IN EVIDENCE IN THE CLINTON
CAMPAIGN MAY COUNTER THAT.
THAT IS, NOW THAT THEY BELIEVE
THAT THEY HAVE A CLEAR LEAD, THE
CLINTON CAMPAIGN IS GOING ALL
OUT TO PULL OUT THEIR VOTERS FOR
THE DOWN-BALLOT RACES-- WE'RE
GOING TO TALK ABOUT THAT IN A
PIECE THAT WILL BE ON THE AIR
TOMORROW.
BUT IT'S VERY SIGNIFICANT
BECAUSE THE CLINTON CAMPAIGN
KNOWS WITHOUT THE SENATE IN THE
DEMOCRATIC HANDS, HER ROLE IF
SHE IS ELECTED PRESIDENT WILL BE
INFINITELY TOUGHER.
SO I DON'T THINK OVER-CONFIDENCE
IS GOING TO PLAY MUCH OF A ROLE
ON NOVEMBER 8.
>> Sreenivasan: WITHOUT GIVING
TOO MUCH AWAY ABOUT YOUR PIECE
TOMORROW, HOW BIG IS THAT
COATTAIL EFFECT?
HOW SIGNIFICANT IS THAT?
>> I CAN GIVE YOU A DEFINITIVE
ANSWER-- SOMETIMES IT IS AND
SOMETIMES IT ISN'T.
WHEN LYNDON JOHNSON WON A
LANDSLIDE IN 1964, HE BROUGHT
TONS OF DEMOCRATS IN ON DOWN-
BALLOTS.
REAGAN DID THE SAME THING IN
1980.
HE HELPED GET THE G.O.P. CONTROL
OF THE SENATE WITH 12 SEATS, WON
33 SEATS IN THE HOUSE.
BUT WHEN NIXON WON A HISTORIC
LANDSLIDE IN '72, IT HAD NO
IMPACT.
AND MY GUESS, OR THEORY IF I
WANT TO FANCY IT UP, IS WHEN AN
ELECTION IS IDEOLOGICAL, IT CAN
HAVE SERIOUS COATTAIL EFFECTS
BECAUSE VOTERS ARE SAYING WE
WANT A CHANGE IN DIRECTION.
I BELIEVE IF CLINTON WINS IT IS
LARGELY A REPUDIATION OF TRUMP,
RATHER THAN SOME COMMITMENT TO
HER AGENDA.
BUT AS I SAID, THE OTHER THING
THAT WE KNOW-- AND WE'LL TALK
ABOUT THIS TOMORROW-- IS PEOPLE
SPLIT THEIR TICKETS LESS.
SO, A HUGE WIN FOR CLINTON IS
LIKELY IT TO HAVE A SIGNIFICANT
IMPACT, PARTICULARLY IN THAT
SENATE RACE AND MAYBE EVEN IN
THE HOUSE AS WELL.
>> Sreenivasan: IS THERE GOING
TO BE AN EVENT, AT LEAST UP TO
THIS POINT, THAT HELPED DEFINE
THE RACE, WHETHER IT'S DEBATE
PERFORMANCES OR IT'S THE LEAKED
VIDEO OF DONALD TRUMP'S COMMENTS
OR THE PAPER CUT AFTER PAPER CUT
OF WIKILEAKS E-MAILS BEING
RELEASED WEEK AFTER WEEK?
>> THE GENERAL THEORY AMONG
ACADEMICS IS THAT CAMPAIGN
EVENTS DON'T HAVE A KIND OF
HUGELY CONSEQUENTIAL EVENT.
THIS YEAR LOOKS LIKE IT MAY
CHALLENGE THAT CONVENTIONAL
WISDOM BECAUSE THE FIRST DEBATE
REALLY SEEMS TO HAVE BEEN THE
TURNING POINT.
TRUMP HAD CLOSED TO WITHIN A
POINT OR TWO IN VIRTUALLY EVERY
POLL, AND ONCE THAT FIRST DEBATE
ENDED, CLINTON'S LEAD BEGAN TO
GROW, AND IT HAS STILL GROWN AND
NOW STABILIZED UP TO THIS POINT.
REMEMBER, THE FUNDAMENTALS, THE
ECONOMIC DATA AND STUFF,
PREDICTED A CLOSE RACE.
SO, THIS MAY BE A CASE WHERE AN
EVENT ACTUALLY HAD AN IMPACT.
ONE QUICK FOOTNOTE-- THE
ECONOMIC FUNDAMENTALS, BARACK
OBAMA'S APPROVAL RATINGS HAVE
ALL MOVED IN A DIRECTION IN THE
LAST MONTH OR TWO THAT HELPS THE
DEMOCRATS.
BUT I STILL THINK WE'RE GOING TO
LOOK BACK AT THAT FIRST
DEBATE AS A CRITICAL FACTOR.
>> Sreenivasan: JEFF
GREENFIELD, MANY THINGS.
>> PLEASURE.
>> Sreenivasan: U.S. DEFENSE
SECRETARY ASH CARTER ARRIVED IN
BAGHDAD TODAY TO ASSESS THE
PROGRESS OF THE IRAQI GOVERNMENT
OFFENSIVE TO RETAKE MOSUL FROM
ISLAMIC STATE MILITANTS.
CARTER SPOKE WITH IRAQI PRIME
MINISTER HAIDER AL-ABADI AND
U.S. COMMANDERS, BUT AL-ABADI
TURNED DOWN CARTER'S REQUEST TO
LET COALITION PARTNER TURKEY
TAKE PART IN THE OFFENSIVE.
TURKISH TROOPS IN NORTHERN IRAQ
HAVE BEEN TRAINING KURDISH AND
SUNNI MUSLIM FIGHTERS, BUT THE
SHIITE-LED IRAQI GOVERNMENT
WANTS THEM OUT.
IRAQI AND KURDISH OFFICIALS SAID
TODAY THEIR FORCES HAVE ADVANCED
TO WITHIN THREE MILES OF MOSUL.
ISIS HAS BEEN OCCUPYING THE
COUNTRY'S SECOND LARGEST CITY
FOR THE PAST TWO YEARS.
100 MILES AWAY, IN THE OIL-RICH
CITY OF KIRKUK, IRAQI OFFICIALS
SAY THEIR TROOPS HAVE REPELLED
ISIS MILITANTS WHO KILLED AT
LEAST 80 PEOPLE IN AN ATTACK
YESTERDAY TO RETALIATE FOR THE
MOSUL OFFENSIVE.
AIR STRIKES BY RUSSIAN OR SYRIAN
WARPLANES ON THE DIVIDED CITY OF
ALEPPO IN NORTHERN SYRIA RESUMED
TODAY AFTER ONLY A TWO-DAY PAUSE
IN FIGHTING.
THAT'S ACCORDING TO THE SYRIAN
OBSERVATORY FOR HUMAN RIGHTS.
IN A UNILATERAL CEASE-FIRE,
RUSSIA AND THE SYRIAN GOVERNMENT
HAD NOT CARRIED OUT ANY ATTACKS
ON THE REBEL-HELD EASTERN HALF
OF THE CITY.
DURING THAT TIME, FEW RESIDENTS
CHOSE TO LEAVE THROUGH SO-CALLED
SAFETY CORRIDORS, AND THE UNITED
NATIONS SAYS AID DELIVERIES AND
EVACUATIONS OF WOUNDED CIVILIANS
DID NOT HAPPEN.
A NEW U.N. SECURITY COUNCIL
REPORT BLAMES SYRIAN FORCES FOR
A CHLORINE GAS ATTACK ON
CIVILIANS IN THE IDLIB REGION OF
SYRIA LAST YEAR.
THE U.N. INVESTIGATIVE TEAM
EARLIER FOUND SYRIAN FORCES
RESPONSIBLE FOR TWO OTHER
CHEMICAL WEAPONS ATTACKS IN
IDLIB.
>> Sreenivasan: FACING THE
REALITY OF INCREASED AUTOMATION
IN THE WORKPLACE, A MAJORITY OF
AMERICANS NOW BELIEVE ROBOTS AND
COMPUTERS WILL TAKE OVER MUCH OF
THE WORK DONE BY PEOPLE IN THE
COMING DECADES.
FOR EXAMPLE, THAT DRIVERLESS
VEHICLES WILL REPLACE TRUCK
DRIVERS OR THAT ROBOTS WILL
REPLACE EVEN MORE FACTORY
WORKERS THAN THEY ALREADY HAVE.
WHILE THIS ISSUE ISN'T GETTING
MUCH ATTENTION HERE THIS
ELECTION SEASON, OVERSEAS, IN
SOUTH KOREA, THERE IS MORE
REFLECTION ON THE PROFOUND
IMPACT ROBOTS ARE ALREADY HAVING
ON THEIR ECONOMY.
IN TONIGHT'S SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT KARLA MURTHY
REPORTS FROM SOUTH KOREA.
>> Reporter: HYUNDAI MEANS
"MODERNITY," AND IT'S IS A BIG
NAME IN THE SOUTH KOREAN
ECONOMIC LANDSCAPE, AND NOT ONLY
FOR CARS.
HEADQUARTERED IN THE
INDUSTRIALIZED PORT CITY OF
ULSAN, HYUNDAI HEAVY INDUSTRIES,
OR H.H.I., IS THE WORLD'S
LARGEST SHIPBUILDER.
IT PRODUCES ENGINES AND
CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT.
H.H.I. IS ALSO A LEADER IN
MAKING INDUSTRIAL ROBOTS.
HYUN-KYU LIM IS A HEAD
RESEARCHER AT H.H.I.'S ROBOT
RESEARCH INSTITUTE.
THIS IS WHERE THEY TEST ROBOTS
USED TO ASSEMBLE CARS.
HE SHOWED ME AN EXAMPLE OF WHAT
ROBOT TECHNOLOGY LOOKED LIKE TEN
YEARS AGO.
THAT SHAKE WHEN THE ROBOT STOPS
SLOWED DOWN PRODUCTIVITY AND
ACCURACY.
LIM SAYS TODAY'S ROBOTS ARE MUCH
MORE PRECISE AND 40% FASTER.
HE SAYS SPOT WELDING, WHICH IS A
COMMON PROCESS IN CAR FACTORIES,
TAKES JUST UNDER ONE SECOND WITH
A ROBOT.
LIM SAYS THAT IMPROVED SPEED HAS
RESULTED IN H.H.I. SELLING TEN
TIMES MORE ROBOTS THAN IT DID
WHEN LIM BEGAN WORKING HERE IN
2000.
INDUSTRIAL ROBOTS HAVE BEEN
WORKING IN MANUFACTURING SINCE
THE 1960s WHEN THE FIRST ROBOT
JOINED THE ASSEMBLY LINE AT
A GENERAL MOTORS PLANT.
BUT IN RECENT YEARS, THERE'S
BEEN A DRAMATIC RISE IN THEIR
USE.
ALONG WITH NEW TECHNOLOGICAL
ADVANCES, ROBOTS HAVE ALSO BEEN
GETTING CHEAPER.
ACCORDING TO THE INTERNATIONAL
FEDERATION OF ROBOTICS, SALES OF
INDUSTRIAL ROBOTS GLOBALLY WENT
UP 59% BETWEEN 2010 AND 2015.
>> THIS IS ONE OF THE ROBOT
APPLICATIONS.
>> Reporter: DAE-YOUNG KIM IS
VICE PRESIDENT OF H.H.I.'S
RESEARCH CENTER.
HE SAYS THE COMPANY HAS
INTEGRATED FOUR ROBOT SYSTEMS
INTO ITS SHIPBUILDING PROCESS,
LIKE THIS ONE THAT GRINDS AN OIL
GROOVE INSIDE ENGINE CYLINDERS,
A TASK ONCE DONE MANUALLY.
WOW!
IN MANUFACTURING, SOUTH KOREA
HAS THE HIGHEST RATIO OF ROBOTS
TO WORKERS IN THE WORLD.
BUT AS ROBOTS BECOME FASTER AND
MORE COST EFFECTIVE, KIM SAYS
H.H.I. WILL NEED TO REDUCE ITS
LOW-SKILLED JOBS IN ORDER TO
REMAIN COMPETITIVE.
>> A LOT OF EAST ASIAN
COUNTRIES, I THINK, ARE IN
BULLS-EYE OF AUTOMATION.
>> Reporter: ERIK BRYNJOLFSSON
IS A PROFESSOR AT THE
MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF
TECHNOLOGY AND DIRECTOR OF
M.I.T.'S INITIATIVE ON THE
DIGITAL ECONOMY.
>> IF YOU GO TO A PLACE LIKE
CHINA OR EVEN VIETNAM, YOU SEE
FACTORIES WHERE THERE ARE
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE WORKING SIDE
BY SIDE DOING VERY ROUTINE WORK,
VERY SIMPLE TASKS.
THOSE ARE EXACTLY THE KINDS OF
TASKS THAT ROBOTS CAN DO WELL.
SO, THE ONES THAT ARE BEING
INVENTED IN SOUTH KOREA AND
AROUND THE WORLD, THOSE MACHINES
ARE GETTING CHEAPER AND CHEAPER
AND MORE AND MORE CAPABLE, AND
INCREASINGLY ARE GOING TO
REPLACE THE KIND OF HUMAN LABOR
THAT HAS BEEN POWERING THE
CHINESE INDUSTRIAL REVIVAL.
>> Reporter: THIS YEAR IN CHINA,
FOXCONN, A MANUFACTURER THAT
ASSEMBLES APPLE iPHONES AND
OTHER ELECTRONICS, REPLACED
60,000 FACTORY WORKERS WITH
ROBOTS.
IN THE U.S., AMAZON BOUGHT THE
ROBOTICS COMPANY KIVA FOR
$775 MILLION IN 2012 AND NOW HAS
OVER 30,000 ROBOTS WORKING IN
ITS FULFILLMENT WAREHOUSES
AROUND THE WORLD.
TO SHARPEN SOUTH KOREA'S
COMPETITIVE EDGE, THE GOVERNMENT
ALONG WITH HYUNDAI MOTOR GROUP
ARE INVESTING $76 MILLION TO
BUILD A SMART FACTORY COMPLEX,
TO DIGITIZE THE MANUFACTURING
PROCESS FROM DESIGN TO
DISTRIBUTION.
SAMSUNG IS ALSO PARTNERING WITH
THE GOVERNMENT TO BUILD 600
SMART FACTORIES ACROSS THE
COUNTRY.
>> (translated): THERE IS A
WORRY AMONG THE WORKERS THAT
AUTOMATED MACHINES WILL
EVENTUALLY REPLACE THEM AND TAKE
THEIR JOBS.
>> Reporter: THE CONSTITUENTS OF
NATIONAL ASSEMBLYMAN JONGHOON
KIM LIVE AND WORK IN ULSAN,
WHERE H.H.I. IS BASED.
>> (translated): IF WE ONLY
TAKE THE INTEREST OF COMPANIES
INTO CONSIDERATION, THE LIFE OF
THE WORKERS WILL DECREASE.
THIS ACTION WILL MAKE THE
WORKERS CONCERNED FOR THEIR
FUTURE AND THEIR JOB SECURITY.
THIS CAN DEVELOP INTO MANY
DIFFERENT SOCIAL PROBLEMS.
>> Reporter: HAS THERE BEEN ANY
INITIATIVE YET TO FIGURE OUT
WHAT TO DO WITH THE WORKERS THAT
COULD POTENTIALLY LOSE THEIR
JOBS?
>> (translated): THERE HAVE
NOT BEEN ANY SPECIFIC PLANS MADE
TO ADDRESS THIS ISSUE.
IN ORDER TO ACHIEVE A BRIGHT
FUTURE, THE GOVERNMENT, THE
COMPANY AND THE WORKERS MUST ALL
WORK AND DELIBERATE TOGETHER.
>> Reporter: BUT WITH NO ONE
ADEQUATELY ADDRESSING THIS
ISSUE, ASSEMBLYMAN KIM FEARS
MORE WORKERS DISPLACED BY ROBOTS
ARE BOUND TO FIND THEMSELVES
UNABLE TO SUPPORT THEMSELVES AND
THEIR FAMILIES IN THE FUTURE.
AMERICANS COULD ALSO FACE
SIMILAR PROBLEMS.
A REPORT THIS YEAR BY THE
CONSULTING FIRM McKINSEY AND
COMPANY FOUND THAT 59% OF
MANUFACTURING WORK COULD BE
AUTOMATED IN THE NEXT DECADE,
INCLUDING 90% OF WHAT WELDERS,
CUTTERS AND SOLDERERS DO.
AND THAT'S NOT ALL.
73% OF FOOD SERVICE WORK COULD
BE AUTOMATED, 53% OF RETAIL WORK
AND 43% OF FINANCE AND INSURANCE
WORK.
>> TO ME, THIS IS THE DEFINING
ISSUE OF THE NEXT DECADE.
IT'S THE MOST IMPORTANT SINGLE
THING THAT OUR COUNTRY CAN FOCUS
ON, IS HOW WE CAN USE THESE
AMAZING, POWERFUL TECHNOLOGIES
TO TRANSFORM THE ECONOMY FOR
GOOD AND TO CREATE SHARED
PROSPERITY.
>> Reporter: BRYNJOLFSSON SAYS
ALMOST EVERY PROFESSION WILL BE
AFFECTED BY AUTOMATION.
HE SAYS THE U.S. IS ON THE
PRECIPICE OF WHAT HE AND THE CO-
AUTHOR OF HIS LAST BOOK CALL
"THE SECOND MACHINE AGE."
>> WE THINK THIS IS A
TRANSFORMATION ON THE SCALE AND
SCOPE OF THE FIRST INDUSTRIAL
REVOLUTION.
IT'S PROBABLY GOING TO PLAY OUT
OVER A PERIOD OF DECADES, AND
WE'RE STILL IN THE EARLY STAGES
OF IT.
BUT AS IT PLAYS OUT, WE'RE GOING
TO SEE VASTLY MORE WEALTH BUT
ALSO VAST SOCIAL DISRUPTION.
>> Reporter: SO, HOW CAN WE AS A
SOCIETY PREPARE FOR THIS MASSIVE
TRANSFORMATION?
>> THE FIRST STEP IS TO
RECOGNIZE THE SCOPE OF THIS
DISRUPTION THAT'S COMING TOWARDS
US AND JUST ACKNOWLEDGE IT.
IN THE FIRST MACHINE AGE AND
INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION, POLLUTION
WENT UP.
WE HAD PROBLEMS LIKE CHILD
LABOR.
BUT AS A SOCIETY, WE RESPONDED.
WE INVENTED MASS PUBLIC
EDUCATION, AND THAT WAS A
RADICAL NOTION THAT THE
GOVERNMENT WOULD PAY FOR THAT.
WE CHANGED THE WAY WE DID TAX
POLICY.
WE INVENTED THE SOCIAL SECURITY
SYSTEM.
LATER, WE PROVIDED MEDICARE AND
MEDICAID.
ALL OF THESE CHANGES HELPED
CUSHION SOME OF THE BLOWS OF THE
INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION AND HELPED
CREATE A MORE HEALTHY AND
EDUCATED WORK FORCE THAN WE HAD.
>> Reporter: AND THAT'S WHAT WE
NEED TO DO NOW?
>> WELL, GOING FORWARD, WE NEED
TO HAVE SIMILARLY BIG CHANGES.
NOW, WE CAN'T JUST DOUBLE DOWN
ON THE SAME THING WE DID BEFORE.
IT MEANS INVENTING SOCIAL
PROGRAMS FOR THE 21st CENTURY
AND NEW TAX POLICY.
BUT, IN TERMS OF THE SCALE AND
SCOPE OF THE CHANGES, YES, I
WOULD SAY THEY'RE AT LEAST AS
BIG AS WHAT WE DID IN THE FIRST
INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION.
>> Reporter: BRYNJOLFSSON
RECOMMENDS GOVERNMENT POLICIES
THAT ENCOURAGE MORE
ENTREPRENEURSHIP BY TAKING AWAY
BARRIERS THAT MAKE IT HARD TO
START NEW BUSINESSES AND REWARD
COMPANIES THROUGH TAX INCENTIVES
TO CREATE MORE JOBS FOR PEOPLE,
NOT ROBOTS.
BUT HOW REALISTIC IS IT TO ENACT
SOME OF THESE POLICIES?
>> THESE POLICIES ARE ABSOLUTELY
NECESSARY, AND I THINK IT'S VERY
REALISTIC TO PUT THEM IN PLACE.
ECONOMISTS, POLICY MAKERS,
MANAGERS, ENTREPRENEURS, WE NEED
TO DO OUR PART TO REINVENT THE
ECONOMY.
IF WE DON'T DO IT RIGHT, A LOT
OF PEOPLE ARE GOING TO BE LEFT
BEHIND.
>> Reporter: IN SOUTH KOREA, THE
ROBOTS OF HYUNDAI HEAVY
INDUSTRIES ARE NOW MAKING THEIR
WAY INTO THE MEDICAL FIELD, FROM
HELPING NURSES MOVE PATIENTS TO
ASSISTING DOCTORS WITH
SURGERIES.
THIS REHABILITATION ROBOT
REDUCES THE NUMBER OF PHYSICAL
THERAPISTS NEEDED TO HELP A
PATIENT WALK.
AND FACING INCREASING GLOBAL
COMPETITION IN THEIR BIGGEST
INDUSTRY, SHIPBUILDING, DAE-
YOUNG KIM SAYS THEIR NEXT
GENERATION OF ROBOTS WILL BE
MORE HUMAN-LIKE BY USING
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE TO LEARN
ON THE JOB.
HOW LONG DO YOU THINK IT WOULD
TAKE TO DEVELOP SOMETHING LIKE
THAT?
>> Sreenivasan: FIND OUT WHY
AIRBNB IS SUING THE STATE OF NEW
YORK OVER A LAW THAT IMPOSES
FINES FOR BREAKING LOCAL HOUSING
REGULATIONS.
READ MORE AT
www.pbs.org/newshour.
THE UNITED NATIONS' HUMAN RIGHTS
COUNCIL IN GENEVA VOTED
YESTERDAY TO START A FORMAL
INQUIRY INTO THE SYRIAN
GOVERNMENT'S BOMBARDMENT OF
ALEPPO, WITH THE U.N.'S TOP
ENVOY TO SYRIA SAYING THE
MILITARY STRIKES ON THE CITY,
AIDED BY RUSSIA, MAY AMOUNT TO
WAR CRIMES.
THE PROBE COULD EVENTUALLY LEAD
TO A TRIAL BEFORE THE
INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT,
WHICH WAS ESTABLISHED IN 2002 TO
INVESTIGATE AND PROSECUTE
WARTIME ATROCITIES.
HOWEVER, THE COURT RECEIVED A
VOTE OF NO CONFIDENCE YESTERDAY
WHEN SOUTH AFRICA ANNOUNCED IT
WILL WITHDRAW FROM THE COURT'S
OVERSIGHT.
IT'S THE SECOND NATION TO DO
SO-- THE OTHER IS BURUNDI-- AND
IT'S UNCLEAR HOW MANY COUNTRIES
MIGHT FOLLOW THEIR LEAD.
THE COURT HAS 124 MEMBER
NATIONS, INCLUDING 34 IN AFRICA.
JOINING ME NOW TO DISCUSS SOUTH
AFRICA'S MOVE AND HOW DAMAGING
IT MIGHT BE IS ANDREW MELDRUM,
THE ACTING AFRICA EDITOR FOR THE
ASSOCIATED PRESS.
HE'S IN JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH
AFRICA.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
WHY DID SOUTH AFRICA TAKE THIS
STEP?
>> SOUTH AFRICA MADE THE
DECISION TO LEAVE THE
INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT
BECAUSE IT DID NOT LIKE THE
COURT'S DECISION THAT SOUTH
AFRICA SHOULD HAVE ARRESTED THE
SUDANESE PRESIDENT, OMAR
AL-BASHIR, WHEN HE VISITED
SOUTH AFRICA MORE THAN A YEAR
AGO.
AND SOUTH AFRICA SAID THE COURT
SHOULD NOT BE TELLING IT TO
ARREST SITTING HEADS OF STATE.
THERE SHOULD HAVE BEEN
DIPLOMATIC IMMUNITY.
AND SO THEY SAID THEY DON'T LIKE
THAT-- WHAT THEY CALLED
INTERFERENCE-- FROM THE I.C.C.
>> Sreenivasan: COMING ON THE
HEELS OF THE WITHDRAWAL FROM
BURUNDI, IS THIS PART OF A
LARGER TREND?
>> WELL, THAT-- THERE ARE MANY
THAT ARE WORRIED THAT THE TWO--
THAT THE DECISION OF THE TWO
AFRICAN COUNTRIES TO LEAVE
THE I.C.C. THIS WEEK COULD SET
OFF A MOVEMENT WHERE SEVERAL
OTHER AFRICAN COUNTRIES WITHDRAW
FROM THE I.C.C.
ALREADY, THE AFRICAN UNION,
WHICH REPRESENTS ALL 54
COUNTRIES OF AFRICA, HAS SAID
THAT THEY DON'T THINK THAT THE
I.C.C. SHOULD PRESS CHARGES
AGAINST ANY SITTING HEAD OF
STATE.
AND UGANDA'S DEPUTY FOREIGN
MINISTER HAS SAID THAT HE WOULD
LIKE TO SEE THIS ISSUE OF
AFRICAN MEMBERS BEING IN THE
I.C.C. BE BROUGHT UP AT THE NEXT
AFRICAN UNION MEETING.
>> Sreenivasan: WHY IS THIS
HAPPENING AMONG AFRICAN NATIONS
AND NOT EVERYWHERE ELSE?
DO THEY FEEL
DISPROPORTIONATELY PROSECUTED?
>> THAT IS THE COMPLAINT, IN
FACT.
ALL SIX CURRENT PROSECUTIONS OR
PROSECUTIONS IN THE PROCESS ARE
OF AFRICANS, AND SO FAR, THE
I.C.C. HAS NOT INDICTED OR
PRESSED CHARGES AGAINST ANY
OTHER PEOPLE FROM ANY OTHER PART
OF THE WORLD.
THEY DO HAVE THE-- THE I.C.C.
DOES HAVE INVESTIGATIONS PENDING
AGAINST LEADERS OF COLOMBIA AND
AFGHANISTAN, BUT SO FAR, NO
CHARGES HAVE BEEN PRESSED.
AND SO AFRICAN LEADERS HAVE
SAID-- THEY'VE COMPLAINED FOR A
COUPLE OF YEARS NOW OR MORE
THAT IT'S ONLY AFRICANS THAT THE
I.C.C. IS PRESSING CHARGES
AGAINST, AND THEY THINK THAT
THAT IS UNFAIR.
>> Sreenivasan: AND NOW, TO BE
CLEAR, THE UNITED STATES IS A
SIGNATORY, BUT IT HAS NOT
RATIFIED.
IT IS NOT AN ACTIVE MEMBER OF
THE I.C.C.
SO, IF THESE NATIONS START TO
WITHDRAW, WHAT HAPPENS TO THE
OVERALL WEIGHT THAT THE I.C.C.
CARRIES?
>> I THINK THAT IT COULD
TREMENDOUSLY WEAKEN.
THERE ARE MANY HUMAN RIGHTS
ACTIVISTS AND OTHERS, LEGAL,
INTERNATIONAL LAW EXPERTS WHO
SAY THIS COULD SERIOUSLY WEAKEN
THE I.C.C.
AS YOU SAY, THE UNITED STATES IS
NOT A FULL MEMBER.
THERE ARE OTHER COUNTRIES THAT
ARE NOT FULL MEMBERS.
RUSSIA, CHINA AND ISRAEL ARE
AMONGST THE OTHERS.
AND THE I.C.C. IS AT A POINT
WHERE IT WANTS TO INCREASE ITS
MEMBERSHIP TO GET ALL MEMBERS IN
THE WORLD, ALL COUNTRIES IN THE
WORLD TO SIGN.
AND AT THIS POINT NOW, IT IS
BACKTRACKING OR IT IS LOSING
MEMBERS.
AND IT IS LOSING MEMBERS FROM
AFRICA WHICH IS AN IMPORTANT
SIGN OF ITS LEGITIMACY
THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
SO, IT COULD BE A REALLY
SIGNIFICANT BLOW TO THE I.C.C.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT,
ANDREW MELDRUM OF THE ASSOCIATED
PRESS JOINING US FROM
JOHANNESBURG TONIGHT, THANKS SO
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>>THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND,
SATURDAY.
>> Sreenivasan: THE DEATH TOLL
IN THE DERAILMENT OF A CROWDED
PASSENGER TRAIN IN THE CENTRAL
AFRICAN COUNTRY OF CAMEROON ROSE
TODAY TO AT LEAST 73, WITH 600
OTHER PASSENGERS INJURED.
THE ACCIDENT HAPPENED YESTERDAY
ON CAMEROON'S MAIN RAIL LINE
CONNECTING THE CAPITAL AND A
MAJOR PORT CITY.
OFFICIALS SAY THE TRAIN WAS
CARRYING 1,300 PASSENGERS--
TWICE ITS NORMAL CAPACITY-- WHEN
SOME OF THE CARRIAGES
OVERTURNED.
THE CAUSE OF THE DERAILMENT IS
STILL UNDER INVESTIGATION.
PENNSYLVANIA GOVERNOR TOM WOLF
HAS ORDERED THE NATIONAL GUARD
TO HELP RECOVERY EFFORTS AFTER
SEVEN INCHES OF RAIN FELL IN
THE CENTRAL AND WESTERN PARTS OF
THE STATE YESTERDAY.
THE STORM HAS CAUSED MASSIVE
FLOODING, DAMAGED HUNDREDS OF
HOMES AND KILLED ONE PERSON.
OFFICIALS SAY WATER SUPPLIES
HAVE NOT BEEN COMPROMISED BY THE
RUPTURE OF A GASOLINE PIPELINE
NEAR HARRISBURG THAT DUMPED
55,000 GALLONS OF GASOLINE INTO
A RIVER.
THE SAME STORM BROUGHT
WIDESPREAD FLOODING IN NEW
ENGLAND.
TWO WHITE MINNEAPOLIS POLICE
OFFICERS INVOLVED IN A FATAL
SHOOTING LAST NOVEMBER OF A 24-
YEAR-OLD BLACK MAN, JAMAR CLARK,
WILL NOT FACE ANY DISCIPLINARY
MEASURES.
MINNEAPOLIS' POLICE CHIEF AND
MAYOR ANNOUNCED THIS YESTERDAY.
THE USE OF DEADLY FORCE WAS
WARRANTED THEY SAID BECAUSE
CLARK HAD TRIED TO GRAB ONE OF
THE OFFICER'S GUNS DURING A
STREET CONFRONTATION THAT WAS
VIDEOTAPED.
THAT'S ALSO WHY STATE AND
FEDERAL PROSECUTORS EARLIER THIS
YEAR DECLINED TO BRING CRIMINAL
CHARGES AGAINST THE OFFICERS.
CLARK'S FAMILY SAYS IT PLANS TO
FILE A CIVIL LAWSUIT.
THE F.B.I. AND U.S. DEPARTMENT
OF HOMELAND SECURITY HAVEN'T
NAMED ANY SUSPECTS IN THE CYBER
ATTACKS THAT FROZE OR SLOWED
DOWN WEB SITES ACROSS THE U.S.
AND EUROPE YESTERDAY, BUT A
GROUP CALLED NEW WORLD HACKERS
CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY.
THE SECURITY FIRM FLASHPOINT
SAYS THE HACKERS MAY HAVE
EXPLOITED INTERNET-CONNECTED
DEVICES LIKE WEBCAMS AND DVRs TO
LAUNCH THE ATTACK.
TWITTER, PAYPAL, AMAZON, NETFLIX
AND SPOTIFY ARE AMONG THE
COMPANIES THAT WERE AFFECTED.
>> Sreenivasan: FINALLY, A
MEGAMERGER IN THE BUSINESS
WORLD.
TELECOM GIANT AT&T HAS AGREED TO
BUY MEDIA GIANT TIME WARNER,
ACCORDING TO THE "WALL STREET
JOURNAL" AND OTHER PUBLISHED
REPORTS.
THE DEAL, VALUED AT $86 BILLION,
WOULD GIVE AT&T CONTROL OF
SEVERAL HIGH-PROFILE MEDIA
ASSETS INCLUDING HBO, CNN AND
THE WARNER BROTHERS MOVIE
STUDIO.
THE DEAL IS EXPECTED TO BE
ANNOUNCED BY BOTH COMPANIES'
BOARD OF DIRECTORS AS EARLY AS
TONIGHT.
IT WOULD BE SUBJECT TO APPROVAL
BY U.S. ANTITRUST REGULATORS.
TOMORROW ON THE BROADCAST, THE
PIVOTAL U.S. SENATE RACE IN
PENNSYLVANIA.
THAT'S ALL FOR THIS EDITION OF
PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
HAVE A GOOD NIGHT.